README.md, before:

# AsyncNetwork
Async Network is a framework for socket networking on Cocoa or Cocoa Touch based on
[AsyncSocket](https://github.com/robbiehanson/CocoaAsyncSocket).

[![Version](https://img.shields.io/cocoapods/v/AsyncNetwork.svg?style=flat)](http://cocoapods.org/pods/AsyncNetwork)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/cocoapods/l/AsyncNetwork.svg?style=flat)](http://cocoapods.org/pods/AsyncNetwork)
[![Platform](https://img.shields.io/cocoapods/p/AsyncNetwork.svg?style=flat)](http://cocoapods.org/pods/AsyncNetwork)

## Usage

To run the example project, clone the repo, and run `pod install` from the Example directory first.

## Quick Start

### Client-Server Networking

In client-server networking, clients connect to servers to exchange messages.
In AsyncNetwork, every client will automatically connect to every discovered
server with the same service name. Servers are discovered using
[Bonjour](http://developer.apple.com/library/mac/#documentation/Cocoa/Conceptual/NetServices/Articles/about.html).

In the server process, create an AsyncServer instance, define the Bonjour
service name and start the server.

```objc
AsyncServer *server = [AsyncServer new];
server.serviceName = @"MyServer";
[server start];
```

In the client process, create an AsyncClient instance, and start it. It will
automatically connect to any discovered servers.

```objc
AsyncClient *client [AsyncClient new];
[client start];
```

To receive messages, assign a delegate to the server and/or client, and
implement `server:didReceiveCommand:object:`.

```objc
server.delegate = myController;

// in MyController.m
- (void)server:(AsyncServer *)theServer didReceiveCommand:(AsyncCommand)command object:(id)object {
    // respond to incoming messages here
}
````

To send messages, call `sendCommand:object:` on the server and/or client. The
message object is automatically encoded via
[NSCoding](https://developer.apple.com/library/mac/#documentation/Cocoa/Reference/Foundation/Protocols/NSCoding_Protocol/Reference/Reference.html).

```objc
[client sendCommand:command object:message];
```

Command is a 32bit number that can be used to identify the type of message being sent.

### Peer-To-Peer Networking

In peer-to-peer networking, every peer can exchange messages with every other
peer on the network. To implement peer-to-peer networking on AsyncNetwork, you
may either use the `AsyncBroadcaster` or have every peer instantiate an
`AsyncServer` and a `AsyncClient`.

With the `AsyncBroadcaster` messages can be send to all peers on the same
subnet. The broadcaster can only send binary data (NSData) and it is not
guaranteed that the data arrives in order.

```objc
AsyncBroadcaster *broadcaster = [AsyncBroadcaster new];
[broadcaster start];
[broadcaster broadcast:data];
```

If you create many servers and clients on your network to implement
peer-to-peer networking this way, you may benefit from disabling the
automatic connection feature of the client. This way, you can initiate a
network connection only as needed, which is especially beneficial if your
plan to implement request-based peer-to-peer networking.

### Request-Based Networking

In request-based networking, a server listens for requests from clients and
sends a response that is bound to the original request. HTTP servers are
implemented this way.

To send a request call `sendObject:responseHandler:` on a client and provide a
block that is called with the server's response to the request.

```objc
[client sendCommand:command object:message responseHandler:^(id<NSCoding> response) {
    // react to the response here
}];
```

On the server, you must implement the delegate method
`server:didReceiveCommand:object:connection:responseBlock:`

```objc
- (void)server:(AsyncServer *)theServer didReceiveCommand:(AsyncCommand)command object:(id)object connection:(AsyncConnection *)connection responseBlock:(AsyncNetworkResponseBlock)block;
	id<NSCoding> yourResponse = ...;
	block(yourResponse);
}
```

If you do not want to keep your connections alive longer than necessary, you
should use `AsyncRequest` instead of `AsyncClient`. `AsyncRequest` will connect
to a server, send a request, wait for the response, and disconnect in one call.

```objc
[AsyncRequest fireRequestWithHost:@"192.168.0.1" port:12345 command:0 object:message responseBlock:^(id<NSCoding> response, NSError *error) {
    // react to the response here
}];
```

## Examples

Examples are located in `Examples/`. Install AsyncNetwork as a shared framework
before running an example.

### Broadcaster

Broadcaster demonstrates the use of AsyncBroadcaster to broadcast messages to
multiple recipients over the local network.

### ClientServer

ClientServer demonstrates how AsyncClient and AsyncServer are set up to
automatically connect to each other and exchange messages. You can create
more servers with CMD-1 and more clients with CMD-2.

### MobileClient

MobileClient demonstrates how to use AsyncNetwork on iOS. It creates a single
AsyncClient that automatically connects to any servers created from
the ClientServer example.

### Request

Request demonstrates the use of AsyncRequests to implement request-based
networking.

### Notify

Notify demonstrates sending a broadcast from a ruby or node server to an iOS
client. This can be used as a local notification to trigger an update on the
mobile client.


## Installation

AsyncNetwork is available through [CocoaPods](http://cocoapods.org). To install
it, simply add the following line to your Podfile:

```ruby
pod "AsyncNetwork"
```

Commit message:

remove preinstalled dependencies, update readme

README.md, after:

# AsyncNetwork
Async Network is a framework for socket networking on Cocoa or Cocoa Touch based on
[AsyncSocket](https://github.com/robbiehanson/CocoaAsyncSocket).

[![Version](https://img.shields.io/cocoapods/v/AsyncNetwork.svg?style=flat)](http://cocoapods.org/pods/AsyncNetwork)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/cocoapods/l/AsyncNetwork.svg?style=flat)](http://cocoapods.org/pods/AsyncNetwork)
[![Platform](https://img.shields.io/cocoapods/p/AsyncNetwork.svg?style=flat)](http://cocoapods.org/pods/AsyncNetwork)

## Quick Start

### Client-Server Networking

In client-server networking, clients connect to servers to exchange messages.
In AsyncNetwork, every client will automatically connect to every discovered
server with the same service name. Servers are discovered using
[Bonjour](http://developer.apple.com/library/mac/#documentation/Cocoa/Conceptual/NetServices/Articles/about.html).

In the server process, create an AsyncServer instance, define the Bonjour
service name and start the server.

```objc
AsyncServer *server = [AsyncServer new];
server.serviceName = @"MyServer";
[server start];
```

In the client process, create an AsyncClient instance, and start it. It will
automatically connect to any discovered servers.

```objc
AsyncClient *client [AsyncClient new];
[client start];
```

To receive messages, assign a delegate to the server and/or client, and
implement `server:didReceiveCommand:object:`.

```objc
server.delegate = myController;

// in MyController.m
- (void)server:(AsyncServer *)theServer didReceiveCommand:(AsyncCommand)command object:(id)object {
    // respond to incoming messages here
}
````

To send messages, call `sendCommand:object:` on the server and/or client. The
message object is automatically encoded via
[NSCoding](https://developer.apple.com/library/mac/#documentation/Cocoa/Reference/Foundation/Protocols/NSCoding_Protocol/Reference/Reference.html).

```objc
[client sendCommand:command object:message];
```

Command is a 32bit number that can be used to identify the type of message being sent.

### Peer-To-Peer Networking

In peer-to-peer networking, every peer can exchange messages with every other
peer on the network. To implement peer-to-peer networking on AsyncNetwork, you
may either use the `AsyncBroadcaster` or have every peer instantiate an
`AsyncServer` and a `AsyncClient`.

With the `AsyncBroadcaster` messages can be send to all peers on the same
subnet. The broadcaster can only send binary data (NSData) and it is not
guaranteed that the data arrives in order.

```objc
AsyncBroadcaster *broadcaster = [AsyncBroadcaster new];
[broadcaster start];
[broadcaster broadcast:data];
```

If you create many servers and clients on your network to implement
peer-to-peer networking this way, you may benefit from disabling the
automatic connection feature of the client. This way, you can initiate a
network connection only as needed, which is especially beneficial if your
plan to implement request-based peer-to-peer networking.

### Request-Based Networking

In request-based networking, a server listens for requests from clients and
sends a response that is bound to the original request. HTTP servers are
implemented this way.

To send a request call `sendObject:responseHandler:` on a client and provide a
block that is called with the server's response to the request.

```objc
[client sendCommand:command object:message responseHandler:^(id<NSCoding> response) {
    // react to the response here
}];
```

On the server, you must implement the delegate method
`server:didReceiveCommand:object:connection:responseBlock:`

```objc
- (void)server:(AsyncServer *)theServer didReceiveCommand:(AsyncCommand)command object:(id)object connection:(AsyncConnection *)connection responseBlock:(AsyncNetworkResponseBlock)block;
	id<NSCoding> yourResponse = ...;
	block(yourResponse);
}
```

If you do not want to keep your connections alive longer than necessary, you
should use `AsyncRequest` instead of `AsyncClient`. `AsyncRequest` will connect
to a server, send a request, wait for the response, and disconnect in one call.

```objc
[AsyncRequest fireRequestWithHost:@"192.168.0.1" port:12345 command:0 object:message responseBlock:^(id<NSCoding> response, NSError *error) {
    // react to the response here
}];
```

## Examples

Examples are located in `Examples/`. Run `pod install` on each of the demo directories to install dependencies.

### Broadcaster

Broadcaster demonstrates the use of AsyncBroadcaster to broadcast messages to
multiple recipients over the local network.

### ClientServer

ClientServer demonstrates how AsyncClient and AsyncServer are set up to
automatically connect to each other and exchange messages. You can create
more servers with CMD-1 and more clients with CMD-2.

### MobileClient

MobileClient demonstrates how to use AsyncNetwork on iOS. It creates a single
AsyncClient that automatically connects to any servers created from
the ClientServer example.

### Request

Request demonstrates the use of AsyncRequests to implement request-based
networking.

### Notify

Notify demonstrates sending a broadcast from a ruby or node server to an iOS
client. This can be used as a local notification to trigger an update on the
mobile client.


## Installation

AsyncNetwork is available through [CocoaPods](http://cocoapods.org). To install
it, simply add the following line to your Podfile:

```ruby
pod "AsyncNetwork"
```
